Hello everybody and welcome to this
tutorial today.
Today I will go ahead download Kali Linux
and demonstrate the installation procedure as well
within a virtual environment.
So first off, go ahead open up your browser.
Type in Kali Linux.
Press "Enter"
Navigate over to their website.
So its www.kali.org
It's HTTPS
Don't forget to check that.
Go ahead and navigate over to downloads.
Let me just go ahead and zoom in here.
Excellent
So here you have images -- It says "Kali Linux 64 bit"
You can have a direct ISO download.
Download of an ISO file, or you can go over to the torrents
and download it from there.
Now Kali Linux, the among tools that it has
and that come pre-installed
is fairly massive for a Linux distro
I mean, its 3 gigabytes, which is huge.
Yeah, the download of 3 gigabytes
it's not just gonna fly like that.
Well, it maybe it will
I don't know what sort of a connection to you have
but for the sake of this tutorial
I have downloaded it, prior to this
so we don't have to go over that through procedure here.
Basically waiting for the download itself to happen.
What you want case you didn't do it
you can just go ahead and click on "ISO"
Click here "Save"
Click "Okay"
and download procedure will begin.
It will be displayed here in the upper right corner.
So you see it reports an hour and 20 minutes.
Just gonna go ahead and stop that because I don't want that happening
and then you have the torrent version
as well.
So you can just click on "torrents"
Save  file
Open up what is displayed here
and it should open up transmission at some point of time
Just go ahead and try that again
Yep, there we go.
So it has a few files here
and just go ahead and click "open"
and it's gonna start the download process.
This might be a bit of a faster option, depending on the status of seeders
but it's really up to you.
You can't really go wrong
especially if you have a faster internet
connection.
It will not matter that much to you.
Let me just go ahead and close the browser.
Now I need to go ahead navigate over to my start menu
and type in VirtualBox
and as soon as you type start typing, it gives you the list of options.
So just go ahead and take this one.
You might wanna pin it to a taskbar or something like that
like I have pinned it to my left panel.
Open up VirtualBox.
Excellent
So I have few machines set up here.
Here, you can see I have like 1-2-3-4-5
I have five virtual machines set up.
I can't them all at the same time because...
well, maybe I could if I reduce the amount of resources
that I allot to each one of them
but I will not do that now.
For the time being, I want to install a brand new Kali Linux
Before I can do that, I need to do a bit of a configuration.
So first off, before the installation procedure starts
or anything of a kind
I need to create a new environment in which this machine will be installed.
So go ahead and click on "new"
Type in whatever name you wish.
I'm just going type in "Kali"
So I know that it's a Kali Linux
because I have a lot of other virtual machines here
but you can name it whatever you want.
The choice is entirely up to you.
Type -- It's obviously not Microsoft Windows.
It's Linux and it's not Ubuntu 64
but since it's based on Debian
I suppose I could type in Debian 64.
Debian 64 bit here.
Not sure if they have Kali.
Probably not.
There we go -- They do not have it.
It doesn't matter.
If you type in version Debian 64 bit, this is going to work.
No problems.
Just click "next" -- that's it.
Here you will allot the amount of RAM that you wanted to have
Now, its not RAM intensive.
It should work fine, as it is by default
but I just have a habit of allotting it above one gigabyte.
For the sake of this tutorial, I will allot it to two gigabytes of RAM
primarily because we will be working with some of the programs
that can be demanding
and it can be resource intensive.
So I want to do this.
Don't worry about it if you given it too much RAM or too little RAM
You can always change this later on.
This is very flexible
That's the beauty of VirtualBox.
That's why I like it so much.
You can change these at any point of time
if you deemed that you need the resources elsewhere
or you have more resources that you can allot here.
So just click "next"
Just go ahead click "create"
Create a virtual hard drive.
Now that is the drive this machine will be using
and just use this one -- VDI VirtualBox.
Disk image -- that's the hard drive file type.
Click "next"
Dynamically allocated -- that's very
important
and you can see
you can read here you what "Dynamically allocated" means.
Basically, it is hard drive file will use space in your physical hard drive
as it fields up.
Up to the maximum fixed size and
and click "next"
Here you will allot dry space.
Now, I have a lot of dry space, so I'm just going to go ahead
and allot, like maybe, 120 gigs.
That's gonna be more than enough for this undertaking
since I do have a lot of dry space in my laptop
I don't really care
but if you don't have enough dry space or something like that
you can go ahead and allot 50 gigabytes or something like that
It should work fine, no problems.
720 is more than I need. Way more.
Just go ahead and click "create"
That's it.
Now we have our Kali
and now we have our environment, under the name "Kali" set up.
There is just one more thing that we need to do.
We need to configure the boot order for this machine
and maybe not the boot order
but rather instead, the location of the ISO file
which it will pull.
So go ahead and right click on it.
"Settings"
"Display"
"Storage"
Click on "Storage"
Click on "Empty"
There's this disc icon here.
When you click on it, it says "choose a virtual CD disk file"
So I have a few here
but none of these are what I actually need.
If you have something in your cd-rom drive
you can just go ahead and click here
and it's gonna pull an image from a CD
but that's not really the case here.
We have an ISO file that we want to use.
So just go ahead and open it up.
Click on "Home"
and I have it in my downloads folder.
It should be around here somewhere.
Yup, there we go!
Kali Linux 1.0.9a-amd64
I do believe that I'm slightly behind the latest version
but we're gonna fix that with updates, no problems.
Open it up it
It says "Kali Linux 1.0.9a-amd64.iso"
and that is the type of file that we're looking for - ".iso"
Open it up. There you go.
It's now inserted.
You can see it here -- The blue marcation in the center.
It's marked and Kali Linux is in the tree.
So click "OK"
Double click on "Kali"
and it says "Starting"
Now it's running.
You have a few options here to utilize.
You can have Live (amd64)
Live (forensic mode)
USB Persistence
Live USB Encryted Persistence
or just go ahead and install it.
So what these options are:
You have "Live", which is basically when it runs from the USB stick
or something like that.
Those are just live boots -- Can be USB, CDs, or something of a kind
where the system is booted from an external device
and that is what people usually do
when they want to access certain services
which are protected by the current
operating system.
So when you bring it down
and when you plug in your USB
and boot the system from the USB stick
your system will not recognize any file
permissions previously set
by the system that was installed there
on the hard drive
or the machine, because it is down
and then you can, I don't know, then you can delete stuff
that the system will not allow you to delete.
This is one of the ways that people had used
to actually delete Internet Explorer in
Windows.
More as a joke than anything els
Just to prove that it's possible
and this is also one of the ways in which you can pull password files
in Windows
and the decrypt them as well.
So will deal with that a bit later on when we get into advanced stuff
but you have fail-safe mode
Live fail-safe mode
Well, every system pretty much has a fails-afe mode today
It's basic boot and it tries to
it just slows the basic things
and this is practically guaranteed to boot
every time you boot in fail-safe mode
unless you messed something up
that is in a very very very very serious way.
Fail-safe mode will boot almost always.
Forensic mode for investigators and such people.
We're not going to be dealing with it in this fashion
because we don't want the live.
We want the installed version
and then you have Live USB Persistence.
So this is a very nice feature that you can have.
For example, you can have an operating system.
Kali Linux or many other distros
installed on a USB stick
and you can have a rather large USB
stick
like, I don't know, 256 gigs or something a kind.
It doesn't need to be that big
It can be a lot smaller
but the bigger the better, primarily because of this persistence flag.
You can work and work
and all your work will be saved on that
USB hard drive.
So you can make permanent changes to a live CD.
Well, generally not to a CD.
This is a USB.
I do believe that there is a way of
doing this for the CD as well
but nobody does that anymore.
Just have a USB stick and you'll be fine.
You see, the first version
the live one
it means when you take it out
when you shut it down
it will forget any and all changes made
to it
but when you have Live USB with persistence
you can  have those changes remembered.
You can break them down.
So next time you boot it, they will load
and here you have another great option --
It's Live USB Encrypted Persistence.
So what this means is basically that your old information
contained on your live USB will be encrypted
and if you happen to lose it
nobody will be able to access your data.
So provided of course, that you have something sensitive there
worth protecting
and I mean you would still lose the data
but you would ensure that no one can actually access it
or anything of a kind.
So if you lose it
If you have some passwords or something like that stored there
Oh well, no big deal.
You know, it's encrypted.
Nobody's gonna be able to break it
provided of course that you have a long enough encryption key
the long enough encryption key.
In any case, in the follow up tutorial
I will go ahead and proceed with the installation.
Notice that we will need to install a few more things
because, look at this --
I'm resizing the screen now
and once I go past a certain size
I can no longer increase the size of my screen
of my virtual screen.
Rather instead, I'm just increasing it's edges
and that is because we need
something called guest additions for VirtualBox.
Guest additions enable full screen displays of virtual machines
but more of that to come in the next tutorial
and I hope I'll see you all there.